it helps welcome back this teachings
gonna be specifically dealing with the
ICT ATM method
you
okay points of focus in this module we
introducing the ICT ATM method
the ATM in bearish conditions with
targets and stop placement the ATM in
bullish conditions with targets and stop
placement
okay introducing the ICT ATM method
all right it's a standalone price action
pattern
the pattern capitalizes on stop runs
you can find this pattern on the
60-minute chart
it's relatively easy to spot and you can
do it quickly and finding it it's pretty
much a
well it's a rejection level okay now
I'll show you what that looks like it's
pretty easy to tree
and wonderful thing is it's a complete
trading model or setups
okay so we're gonna look at the ATM in
bearish conditions now once you take a
look at this diagram on the right hand
side okay and let that image burn in for
a couple of minutes
and as I'm talking to you this kind of
like study what it's depicting and I
want you to think about how when we
start as traders generally the idea of
support resistance is
rather early in our introduction to
technical analysis and the problem I
found when I first started as a trader
is what support resistance levels do I
use is I mean there's so many you could
possibly have on your chart which ones
should I be focusing on so my work has
been trying to simplifying that so that
way I could teach it to my children
because of this I've been able to make
pretty detailed tutorials for people
around the world to learn from and I
develop a little bit better ability to
teach over the years doing it but
initially when I first started I gave a
lot of information and it was overkill
so this teaching is going to be rather
brief but it's again very dense in its
information so again looking at this
diagram here I want you to think about
what would constitute these turning
points and I'm sure if you were to go
through charts you could see patterns
like this that are very similar in
different time frames the time frame
that I teach to find this pattern on is
the hourly chart the reason why I like
to look for it on the hourly chart is
because it gives me flexibility to draw
down to a lower timeframe to refine risk
to a smaller amount and while still
keeping the maximum reward still in
sight
and also the hourly to me is clean
enough in terms of a time frame it
promotes a little bit longer term
horizon for the set ups now a granite an
alloy chart is not long term but you can
see a lot of the levels you can see
otherwise on a 4-hour or daily if you
know what you're looking for
so I kind of like one in green in your
mind and this teaching how we can use
key support resistance levels and what
makes these levels key
so the first thing you want to do is you
want to take your 60-minute chart and
this couldn't work on any asset class
okay so I'm gonna be using Forex for
this discussion okay and the scope is in
demo trading only but you can also do if
you can also do demo accounts with
futures contracts commodity stocks bonds
and the like
so you start with a 60-minute chart
pretty simple straightforward you don't
do you don't to do a whole lot of
top-down analysis because the pattern is
self-sufficient so you've been looking
for a 60-minute chart for a key high to
form and what makes it a key high is you
want to see it create this initial
short-term high and then it runs through
it then it breaks down okay it's going
to break a swing low right here when
price trades through that that's when it
becomes a valid pattern it does not
become a valid pattern until we get
below this swing low here okay so
imagine price action kind of creating a
check mark okay give it a little sort of
short-term high here and it makes a
check like that okay when that check
mark gets surpassed by price action when
it trades back up to that that's the
setup okay that's what we're looking for
so ideally what makes this setup
stronger is if this whole price swing is
part of a two-stage move in other words
we have a short-term high
that's ran out let me have a short-term
high here and it runs out okay so this
move should be ideally the second move
up taking on a short-term high that
means we're pretty much overbought from
a technical standpoint without the
necessity of any indicators so we're
focusing again on this short-term low
here
and it has to break below that
again our two stage move higher
I'm going to be waiting for price to
retrace back to the swing low that forms
prior to the key i forming now what
makes this high key
is the fact that we have taken out a
short term high but though
immediately after that short term high
is violated it's broken down so in in
essence this is a break in market
structure here and all we're doing is
waiting for a retest of that same old
support level now becomes resistance
cell now when we see this in proper
context we can classify and quantify
real support resistance because we're
incorporating the idea of a stop run
above this short term high and then
anyone that's long here we're going to
have a stop below this low so they run
through those stops price comes back up
to this level here we've already
rejected price above this short term
high above number two so this level here
should promote selling and it should
stay voff any real buying because we've
broken market structure with this swing
low with this drop down so this would be
nice area to look for shorts and then
once we have that
what we look forward well in this entry
pattern we have to frame obviously
profit and risk so we first have to
determine what's our potential profit
what do we hope to make so we look for a
swing low where in this case it would be
sell stops
resting below that short term low and we
would target from our entry point at
this hole low down to that level just
below the old low that's what we are
aiming for that's our target if you will
the risk is going to be defined by one
or two pips above the key high okay or
the rejection high
price can go above this short-term low a
little bit it's better if it doesn't but
don't be a you know fraid if it goes
above a little bit your stop-loss is up
there to do its work it's a demo account
don't lose you any sleep over it okay so
we're looking for the framework of this
entry point to this as our objective and
our stop-loss protecting our overall
position okay so let's take a look of it
in actual price action
okay we can see price creating a
short-term high here
price runs through it we have no
short-term high here price runs through
that and then it rejects being above
this short-term high and trades down
below this low
and price comes back up and retail three
trades to it okay so this candle here
violates it then we come right back up
to it and trades right into that same
level as soon as that happens that is a
sell scenario okay or shorting
opportunity we're going to looking for a
move below this low our risk is defined
by the high set sixty five pips risk to
make from this entry point down to the
stops
that's not bad you can take that trades
none you barn Bernie okay
if we drop down into a 15-minute
timeframe we can take that same insight
and here and zero in and use our trusty
optimal trade entry pattern to reduce
some of the risk so now we can reduce
that 65 pip stop-loss down to 20 pips
notice also that we have a Fibonacci
extension of 300% which takes us right
below that low where our self stop
target would be so now we're going to
get look at an example of the bullish
condition of an ATM again look at the
scenario here in this
crude depiction
again we're scanning the price action on
a 60-minute chart key low perform and a
short term swing high broken to the
upside that's gonna be this right here
so we're looking for a low
that's violated and then we trade right
back above the short term high right
here so in other words what we're
looking for
it's kinda like a crooked little number
seven okay and when that is violate on
the upside when price comes back down to
it that's what we're hunting
so ideally this is going to be part of a
continued swing lower we have a swing
low that's violated here and then we
have a swing low
that's violated here so it's like a
two-stage move lower of breaking old
support old support so now we're really
oversold technically without any
necessity of needing any indicators to
tell us that
so here's our to scale drop-down
and we are we waiting for price to
retrace back to the swing hi broken
prior to the key lo forming again that's
this here and we zero in right there
that's our setup for a long so we'll
look for our opportunity for training
our potential reward again we're gonna
be hunting by stops above this swing
high here and the stop-loss is below
here so our entry to our stop is our
risk and our entry to the buy stops
above here is our potential profit or
reward alright we'll take a look an
example in the bullish condition
all right so here is price action on an
hourly chart you can see we have
one support level broken another area of
support broken and then we have an old
low violated aggressively and then price
trades back above it right here when we
see that this retest of that old high
that's where we're hunting along so if
that's our entry and this is our stop
loss
we're risking 140 pips to make 225 pips
by stops our our target here now that
may not be an ideal scenario for you and
it may not be something that fits your
risk appetite
so we can now drop down into a 15-minute
time frame and try to get that same 225
pips with a little bit lower stop-loss
so here we are on a 15-minute time frame
up zoomed in here in that same little
area of looking to be a buyer we're
gonna be now removing all of that risk
down to 80 pips so we have a stop loss
just below this old low here okay
so we have this low to this high here
coming back down into that level so
we're trying to give ourselves a little
bit more of a better risk to reward
model here right away
we're almost at three to one
so that's improved but watch what we do
when we zoom in a little bit more we're
going to actually down to a five-minute
chart now
and still see if we can get that 225
pips but with a smaller stop-loss
okay so now we have a 5-minute chart
again that same little area that green
circle were zoomed in here and now I'm
doing this doing an optimal trade entry
long running the fit from the body's
lowest open or close to the highest open
or close in this swing high I guess it's
a beautiful little awesome trade entry
long right at the same level we would be
done looking for that scenario to unfold
that and now we can reduce that stop
down to 20 pips but still looking and
hunting 225 pips or in this case becomes
11 to 1 reward to risk model so what
we've done is we've looked for a key
turning point
we've identified the key levels relative
to runs on liquidity stops and we use
the targets in the form of a stock run
as well we can use the optimal trade
entry zero in and reduce the risk but
still keep the possible potential reward
still the same as we would have used
from an hourly setup
so the two or 25 pips is still available
to us with a 20 pips stop-loss now
agreement got to hold it for a while but
this is what it looks like on a 5-minute
zoomed out and I'm getting that entire
move but it takes a little bit of time
to get there but nonetheless this is how
we can use the ATM method to get high
probability setups trading key support
resistance levels again to hunt 25 pips
is available with 25th stop-loss
I hope you enjoyed this presentation if
you like these types of teachings you
define more at be in a circle trader.com